Propose.
Two.
What's the stake?
Your ring?
CAPTAIN:
Gambling again, Poldark.
Remind me why you enlisted?
To escape the gallows, sir.
Your crime?
Brawling, sir.
Free trading, assaulting
a customs official.
Wastrels and thieves,
the lot of you.
But you'll soon have the honor
of redeeming yourselves
in the service
of king and country.
You doubt the justice
of our cause, sir?
And what cause
would that be, sir?
Liberty or tyranny?
You want to leave here?
Or die here?!
On your feet, man!
On your feet!
WOMAN".
Pray do not be reckless.
I wish you to return.
POLDARK:
It won't be for long.
You'll forget me.
POLDARK:
Never!
WOMAN (whispering):
Are you sure?
SECOND WOMAN: I trust I may believe
the evidence of my own eyes, dear.
FIRST WOMAN:
Was he not reported dead?
MAN (whispering):
Better if he had been.
He's brought little credit
to his family.
SECOND WOMAN:
His father was no different.
A scoundrel.
And a libertine.
SECOND WOMAN: Still the family
name counts for something.
And now he's to inherit...
ls my father dead?
Oh, sir!
Bless me!
We had no idea
you were awake.
When did he die?
Some six months past.
You'd had no word?
None that reached me.
How was the war, sir?
As any war, ma'am.
A waste of good men.
OLDER WOMAN: You're not
going home to Nampara?
To my Uncle Charles first,
ma'am.
Since my father will evidently
not be at home,
I must look for a welcome
elsewhere.
Do the honors, Verity.
And no half-measures!
I couldn't eat
another morsel.
Piffle, girl,
you're as thin as a wraith.
We must fatten you up!
Perhaps Francis
will be able to coax her.
I happen to like her
just as she is.
(door opens)
Was that the door?
Were you expecting
someone, my dear?
She's too valuable here to be
thinking of gentlemen callers!
I hope I'm not intruding.
(gasping):
Oh, Ross!
We'd given up all hope.
Stap me, boy, you survived!
MAN:
To see you again, cousin!
We had quite despaired.
Hadn't we, Elizabeth?
Yes.
Elizabeth!
I had no idea you'd be here.
Do tell us, Ross,
how we managed to lose the war.
By choosing the wrong side,
ma'am.
I couldn't have wished
for a better homecoming.
I must speak with you, Ross.
Yes, of course.
And what will you do
with yourself now, nephew?
You'll find Nampara
not as you left it.
Damn me, boy!
If we hadn't thought
you'd gone
to join the Blest Above!
Great-Aunt, I'm glad to see you
are still of the Blest Below.
We'd had no word
from you, so...
Sit here, Ross,
you must be exhausted.
Elizabeth, fetch me
my wrap.
Yes, Mama.
I seem to have interrupted
a party.
Is this in honor of the peace
or of the next war?
FRANCIS:
No, um...
Well... the occasion is...
Something far more pleasant.
My boy is to be married.
But that's tremendous!
Who is it to be?
Elizabeth.
(quietly):
Elizabeth?
MOTHER:
Naturally we're delighted
that our two ancient
and distinguished families
will be united.
Did my father suffer much,
Uncle?
A pitiful end.
Affairs in tatters
and next to nothing left
for you to inherit.
Not that we thought
you'd be back to claim it!
UNCLE: It's a poor Cornwall
you've returned to.
Taxes sky high,
wages in the gutter...
Mine closures
every other week.
CHARLES:
Bad as you, lad!
Scarred for life,
on its knees!
I can't stay.
I've only called to let
you know I've returned.
I must trouble you
for a horse, Charles.
But first, a toast.
To Elizabeth and Francis...
May they find happiness
together.
ALL (quietly):
Elizabeth and Francis.
Jud?
Prudie?
On your feet now!
Judas!
Is it Mr. Ross?
Back from the grave.
You were my father's
personal servants.
You were left in a position
of trust.
Well, pick me liver,
what could us do,
left alone
with no master to guide us?
I'll guide you with the side
of my foot in future.
But see, 'twas rumored
you were dead.
Perhaps you started the tale?
Ain't no call
to accuse us, Mr. Ross.
'Tisn't right, 'tisn't fair,
'tisn't fit, 'tisn't friendly.
You'll get "friendly"
if I don't see my face reflected
in this floor by the time
you're done.
Ross looked well.
He did.
Better than one might
have expected.
Considering
one thought him dead.
Elizabeth will make
a fine mistress of Trenwith.
Not for three months, that.
Your father thinks
it should be sooner.
Does he?
His view is if two young people
wish to be together,
what is there to wait for?
Can it be?
It isn't a ghost?
See for yourself!
We heard you took a bullet!
I dodged a few!
And got a title?
Captain Poldark!
And the war?
An education, Jim.
Well...
What happened here?
Since your father died,
we've had no repairs.
I'll remedy that.
You were my father's tenants,
now you're mine.
Nay, Ross, you've got
enough to think on,
with ruined home
and barren land.
I have hands, do I not?
A spade, a plough...
Well, we can help you.
I cannot pay you.
I would not expect it.
You labored long enough in
my uncle's mine for a pittance.
I'll not have you
serve me for nothing.
Ross?
What did happen out there?
L grew UP-
Mr. Poldark to see you,
Miss Elizabeth.
My dear, I have great news.
Your father left
very little of value.
The house, two derelict mines,
a few decaying cottages.
The land, I fear,
has been left to rot?
Entirely.
So you come to inquire
as to credit?
As your friend,
I would back you to the hilt.
As your banker,
I'm obliged to disappoint.
Your father had debts,
your property is mortgaged,
your land has no income.
I'm a poor risk.
Quite so.
And my tenants,
can I do nothing for them?
I know you have an affection
for these people,
but you can barely support
yourself, let alone them.
Then you'd advise me...
Look to your own devices.
Seek your fortune
as and where you may.
Beggars cannot be choosers?
I hope you may rely on the
friend, if not the banker.
I hope so, too.
For I need all the friends
I can get.
Ross Poldark is alive.
That wastrel?
At school
I rather admired him.
He said what he thought,
did what he liked.
And where did it get him?
It got him a following.
Something we frequently
fail to acquire.
I wonder if he might
not be useful to us?
His father's dead.
He has no obvious
source of income.
If we could rally him
to our cause...
To what end?
He has an ancient
family name.
Doors which are closed to us
might open for him.
What inducements could we offer?
His need at present
must be severe.
(scoffs)
You mean to buy his friendship?
I'd rather he bestowed it
willingly.
I find people are very friendly
when they cannot afford
not to be.
Elizabeth,
where are you going?
I must speak with Ross, Mama.
To what purpose?
To explain.
To ask him,
what shall we do?
There is nothing to do.
You are engaged to Francis.
But Ross and I...
Where is he now?
Has he come to see you?
What can he offer you
but poverty, uncertainty,
a dubious reputation.
I do not care
about reputation.
But you should.
Francis adores you.
You will be mistress
of Trenwith.
Had Ross not returned, would you
have the slightest hesitation?
But he has returned.
If he still cared for you,
would he not have been
at the door by now?
Just clearing the field,
Mr. Ross.
A cheering spectacle,
and a need for one.
Hard work is now required if
we're to put food on the table.
Hard work?
I can see you're unfamiliar
with the concept.
Let me clarify:
We have nothing to live on
beyond the fruits
of our own labors.
We shall need
to tighten our belts,
and in some cases,
that can only be to the good.
Verity!
You would have been surprised
to hear about Elizabeth.
I had no option
on the girl.
It was strange how it happened.
One moment
she barely noticed Francis.
The next...
She noticed his mine,
his house, his estate?
That was uncalled for.
The Wedding's in a fortnight.
So soon?
I wish I could help you,
my dear.
I must find my own way
out of this.
An alarming prospect,
is it not?
A lifetime with me.
I cannot promise to be
as fascinating as some.
Or as bold or reckless.
But one thing
I can promise you.
My undying love.
And gratitude.
But if there is... something
that still troubles you...
If there is something
that you wish to tell me?
There is.
I wish to tell you that
I cannot wait to be your wife.
FRANCIS:
Should you be doing this?
I cannot afford a farmhand.
Your father would not
have wished you to stoop.
My father would not
have wished me to starve.
She's proved a poor legacy.
Certainly a fickle one.
Well, her time may come again.
Perhaps I should examine her.
Is that wise?
FRANCIS:
How deep did they drive it?
POLDARK:
30 fathoms.
Most of it will be
underwater by now.
Ross, my...
my father's concerned.
That... you should make
the right choices.
Face... face
certain realities.
Accept that your future
may lie elsewhere.
I thank him for his concern.
Ross, you do know I'm to be
married next week?
And?
You've... you've not yet
accepted our invitation.
I've things to attend to.
But you must come.
I'm not one for ceremonies.
Ross, it is our dearest wish...
Ross?
You must understand,
when I first met Elizabeth,
there was no thought
of my coming between you,
but what could I do?
My feelings- our feelings
for each other...
For God's sake,
must you rub my nose in it?!
Ross! For pity's...!
Why the hell don't you
learn to swim?
For a moment I thought...
I thought you'd let me drown.
For a moment I thought so, too.
PRIEST: Elizabeth, wilt thou hast
this man as your wedded husband?
To live together
after God's ordinance
in a state of holy matrimony.
Will thou love, honor,
and keep him...
...forsaking all others so long
as you both shall live?
ELIZABETH:
I will.
PRIEST: Those who God hath joined
together let no man put asunder.
POLDARK: George has
done well for himself.
VERITY: As you'll discover, the
Warleggans are on the rise.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is
a proud day for the Poldarks.
I wish you could dance, Ross.
I thank an American musket
for sparing me the ordeal.
Perhaps I should have purchased
her for you, nephew.
I broker my own business
these days.
Well, she'll be wasted here.
These Poldarks have nothing
beyond the name.
Mine on its knees
and mortgaged to the hilt,
Warleggans Bank may send in the
bailiffs as and when it chooses.
This is elegant talk
for a wedding, Uncle!
Talk of a profit is
always elegant, George.
My compliments on the scratch!
Was it got
in any actual fighting
or another gambling brawl?
Old habits die hard.
I was sorry to hear
of your father.
We have something in common.
Both fatherless?
Hostages to our
family's fortune.
And there the similarity ends.
Cornwall is changing.
These are difficult times.
I trust you will feel
you can rely on your friends.
What for?
Well, whatever
you might require.
Thank you, George,
I believe I can manage.
Do you believe breeding
can ever be bought?
You should ask your uncle.
Elizabeth would be delighted
by talk of bailiffs
on her wedding day.
Well, Elizabeth's delight is
surely no longer your concern.
There you are, Ross!
I've been sent to find you.
CHARLES:
Let the fight commence!
VERITY:
You see?
He hadn't left
after all!
I was glad to see
you at church.
You must wonder why
I wished you there.
After that night,
when we had no chance to speak,
I thought you would
come to see me.
Why would I do that?
To give me a chance
to explain, to apologize.
For what?
There was no formal
undertaking between us.
Not officially, no.
But you know there
was something--
an understanding.
But three years is
a long time, Ross.
MRS. CHYNOWETH:
Elizabeth.
Remember your duty as a bride
is to all your guests?
I've no taste
for fighting, Mama.
Are you a fan
of the sport, Ross?
Perhaps
you'll instruct me
in its finer points.
I doubt there are
any subtleties of combat
on which I can offer
you advice, ma'am.
I'll send Francis to you.
You mustn't blame my mother.
This was my decision.
And we must abide by it.
And we shall be neighbors?
And friends?
If you say so.
FRANCIS:
Feeling neglected, my dear?
May I claim my bride, Ross?
Still a good day
for Poldarks?
Don't encourage her.
The dark Poldark?
Or the fair?
AU NT AGATHA:
The stronger rises
as the weaker falls.
For all is fair in love and war.
Still feeding that pair
of wastrels?
If you turfed them out,
you could afford to buy stock.
They were my father's friends.
You drive yourself hard, boy.
It keeps me out of mischief.
I'm not unfeeling, Ross.
I know your father had the worst
of the land and the property.
The lot of a younger son.
I'd like to show
you something.
What do you see?
N.
Your mine.
Not so.
What you see is the past.
Does it not still produce?
Precious little.
And nothing to trouble
the Welsh mines
where they're dragging it out
by the cart-load.
Meantime, we are sunk in debt.
The bankers have us
by the throat.
I'm sorry.
And your mines?
What of them?
Even worse than Grambler.
Derelict, both of them.
Your land?
Barren.
There's nothing
for you here, boy.
Your future
lies elsewhere.
A change of profession.
The law, perhaps?
Or even the church.
Do you really
not know me, Uncle?
A move to London.
Oxford?
I'll fund it.
Your education,
your expenses.
I believe it's what
your father would have wanted.
And Francis, what do you
believe he would want?
For you to prosper.
Away from here.
I think that would be best
for all concerned.
I'll think on it.
You should be biting
my hand off!
And may yet do so.
But till I've exhausted
every possibility
of making a living on my own
land, among my own people...
Damn your stubbornness, boy!
The land is useless,
its people are starving.
What possible reason
is there to stay?
Today's market day?
Aye, sir, 'tis, sir.
Well, don't stand there
gawping, Jud!
Fetch me my father's
pocket-watch.
Hey, that's my dog!
Go away!
Garrick!
Get off him!
Let him go!
Enough!
You take my advice, you run.
Or else?
Have they hurt you, child?
Don't you "child" me, mister!
I think we've provided
enough sport for one day.
Anyone know this child?
It's Tom Game's daughter
from Illuggan.
She'll get the strap
if he catches her from home
and in her brother's clothes.
Easy, girl.
No one will rob you.
I came to see if the boy was...
Oh!
You were right to step in.
I'm glad you think so.
I'm sure the child is grateful.
I doubt it.
(door opens)
Elizabeth?
They did hurt you.
Not they.
Then who?
(softly):
My father.
What?
Father.
Beats you?
Most days.
Family?
Six brothers.
Do you love your father?
Bible says I must.
What's your name?
(softly):
Melzacarne.
Speak up, child.
(loudly):
Demelza Carne.
Ross Poldark.
Befriending the rabble, Ross?
One would never guess
you were a gentleman.
It takes one to know one,
I believe, George.
For a man so impecunious,
he's very full of himself.
Perhaps he considers
us tradesmen.
Which we are.
Were.
It's a pity he owns nothing
worth having.
Come.
I'm taking you home
to llluggan.
He may do so in future.
When he does, it will be
my pleasure to take it from him.
Go.
You're back early.
How was market day?
(chuckling):
Not without incident.
DEMELZA: ♪ There was an old
couple and they was poor ♪
♪ They lived in a house
that had but one door ♪
♪ Oh, what a poor couple
was they, was they... ♪
Illuggan's that way.
Thank you, sir.
♪ There was an old couple
and they was poor ♪
♪ Tweedle Tweedle Tweedle dee ♪
♪ Oh I have been sick since
you have been gone... ♪
I'm in need of a kitchen maid.
You'd get food, lodging,
proper clothing.
I want someone strong,
for the work is hard.
How far?
Too far to run home.
But perhaps you don't wish
to come.
There be Garrick, sir.
Him and me be friends.
Where I go, he goes.
Who we have here?
This is Demelza.
She's to help in the kitchen.
Picking up brats will bring
you no end of trouble.
See to the horse.
She'll be seething
with crawlers.
Not if I give her the same
treatment I gave you.
'Tisn't right, 'tisn't fair,
'tisn't fit, 'tisn't proper.
POLDARK: If you work for me, you
must be clean, do you understand?
No lice.
Yes, sir...
Ain't no vittles for her.
Find some.
Scarce feed us selves,
how you going to feed
another beside?
Leave that to me.
What she be smirking at?
Blathering blasted brat!
How old she be?
Old enough to know her own mind!
Not too big to feel
the back of my hand.
Prudie?
When did this letter come?
PRUDIE: Just now, sir,
from your Uncle Charles.
Don't lurk out there, girl,
come in.
Have Jud and Prudie
made you welcome?
Of course not.
You must learn to stand up
for yourself.
Show them you have
a mind of your own
and you will not
be dictated to.
Clear this away.
To Prudie, not your dog.
Yes, sir.
I been thinking, sir,
about Garrick, sir.
He be outside,
whining to get in.
Let him whine.
Aye, sir.
But he be clean,
he ain't got no crawlers.
All dogs have crawlers.
I'll have none of them
in my house.
Now go do as I bid you.
Ross!
I wasn't expecting...
ls my uncle in?
Did you enjoy market day?
What time will my uncle be back?
You caused quite a stir.
Though not everyone
appreciated your intervention.
The child did.
She got home safely?
I thought to employ the girl,
as a kitchen maid.
Her family appear
to care little for her.
You should send her back
to them.
People are quick to judge.
Are you?
I shouldn't have come.
I can see it upsets you.
Ross, it's not your coming here.
What, then?
It hurts to think
how you must hate me.
Good God, Elizabeth,
you of all people should know.
From the moment I set eyes
on you, no one else existed.
While I was away,
all I could think about
was coming back to you.
Ross...
Did we really not mean
those things we said?
That day I left, was there
really nothing between us?
Is there really nothing
between us now?
I thought you were dead!
How can you come to me now
and ask me things
you know I can't answer?
Why can't you answer?
(loudly):
There's nothing
for you here, Ross.
I love Francis.
You must forget me
and make your life elsewhere.
You may rely upon it.
At least let us
part as friends.
We can never be friends.
Tell my uncle he has his wish.
What wish?
Ross!
What wish?!
Tell the girl to fetch
her belongings.
Eh?
She's leaving.
Leaving?
As am I.
You, sir?
To London, she to her father.
But her father's here.
What can I do for you?
What can you do?
When you've slocked my daughter
and enticed her away.
Where is she?
No idea.
They searched the house.
By whose permission?
I need no permission
to come after me own!
That's why you bring
your family?
Not man enough to do
the job yourself?
I brought more than we!
So you can take her home
and beat her?
Is that your business?
If I choose to make it so.
All right, boys!
Sir, they be hordes
of them!
llluggan folk don't hold
with thieving.
We come for justice.
An army against one man?
That's brave!
Afeared, are ye?
On the contrary.
You couldn't have come
at a better time!
Lord save him!
Nay, stand off, boys.
I'll handle this myself.
What business have ye here?
Naught with ye,
but with your fancy gent
who stole a llluggan maid!
And we're here
to take her back!
Good luck to you!
(panting):
Mr. Francis!
They be killing Mr. Ross!
What the devil
are you saying, woman?
(panting):
They be murdering him, sir.
Mr. Ross be fighting
for his life.
You must go to him, Francis,
you must help him.
The woman exaggerates.
For pity's sake!
Take Elizabeth inside.
Be so good as to close the door
on your way out.
(breathless):
Ye be alive, sir!
It would appear so.
Any sign of the girl?
I ain't seen her
since God knows when.
(panting):
Happen she run away, sir.
Happen it be
for the best, sir.
I'm inclined to agree with you.
She appears to be more trouble
than she's worth.
Where's Jud?
Gone to fight
the Illuggan miners, sir.
Happen he be dead himself
'fore long.
And I left a widow,
all forlorn.
You heard him.
He don't want thee here.
"More trouble
than she's worth"?
His words, not mine.
Now hop it, girl.
Back where ye belong.
In God's name, what happened?
CHARLES:
Francis!
They'll not thank him for
dragging them into his folly.
Which gives him even
less reason to stay.
He means to leave?
He's been invited to leave.
What have you done, Father?
They'll be nursing their bruises
till next back-end!
So you leave me at home
to dispatch one man,
while you treat yourselves
to a full-scale brawl?
Aye, sir,
that's the truth of it, sir.
It won't
happen again.
Don't say that!
Quarrels of my own making
I'll fight my own way,
you understand?
It was a matter of pride.
Nay, of personal affront.
The quarrel was mine.
Nay, Ross,
friends don't stand by
when one of their own's
at stake.
Come the day
Wheal Leisure's fit,
she can count on us an' all.
I don't like it, Father.
You'd like it less
if you lost your wife.
(scoffs): You're assuming
I can't keep her myself.
Can you?
DEMELZA: ♪ The old man
he went far from home ♪
♪ Tweedle, Tweedle, go twee ♪
♪ The old man he went
far from home ♪
♪ All the while... ♪
♪ Oh, what a weak woman
was she, was she ♪
was she J"
♪ Oh I have been sick
since you have been gone ♪
♪ Tweedle, tweedle, twee ♪
♪ The old man,
he returned at last... ♪
What have you got
to sing about?
You're making a mistake.
Am I?
Your place is here.
Your land, your mines.
Are you asking me
to stay, Elizabeth?
I'm saying that everything that
matters to you is in Cornwall.
Where did you think
I was going?
To London.
Your uncle said...
My uncle is mistaken.
Then what are you doing?
I lost sight of something.
I came in search of it.
Having found it,
I'm going home.
DEMELZA:
What's that to you?
My inheritance.